>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY,
SEPTEMBER, 14:
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON
SAYS BRITAIN WILL MAKE ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS PAY FOR THE
BEHEADING OF A BRITISH AID
WORKER.
WHY ARE SO FEW OF AMERICA'S TOP
NEWSROOMS LED BY WOMEN?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
FEARING A NEW ANTI-SEMITISM A
GROWING NUMBER OF JEWS ARE
LEAVING FRANCE.
>> DURING ISRAEL'S WAR WITH
HAMAS, THE SYNAGOGUE WAS
TARGETED BY DEMONSTRATORS WHO
REPORTEDLY CHANTED "DEATH TO
JEWS" AS THEY ATTACKED.
>> NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
BRITISH PRIME MINISTER DAVID
CAMERON REACTED WITH OUTRAGE
TODAY TO THE BEHEADING BY
ISLAMIC STATE EXTREMISTS OF
BRITISH AID WORKER DAVID HAINES.
>> THEY CLAIM TO DO THIS IN THE
NAME OF ISLAM.
THAT IS NONSENSE.
ISLAM IS A RELIGION OF PEACE.
THEY ARE NOT MUSLIMS, THEY ARE
MONSTERS.
>> Sreenivasan: APPEARING ON THE
SUNDAY TALK SHOWS, WHITE HOUSE
CHIEF OF STAFF DENIS MCDONOUGH
SAID THE KILLING, THE THIRD OF
ITS KIND DOCUMENTED ON VIDEOTAPE
IN RECENT WEEKS, ILLUSTRATES THE
BRUTALITY OF THE GROUP.
>> WE WERE OBVIOUSLY PAINFULLY
AWARE OF THEIR BARBARITY AND
THEIR NEFARIOUSNESS EVEN BEFORE
THIS VIDEO, BUT THIS OBVIOUSLY
UNDERSCORES IT YET AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THAT
AMERICAN ALLIES HAVE OFFERED TO
PARTICIPATE IN AIRSTRIKES
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS
AND EXPECTS SOME OF THEM TO
VOLUNTEER GROUND TROOPS TO FIGHT
SOON.
THOSE COUNTRIES WERE NOT
IDENTIFIED.
BUT SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN
SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM EXPRESSED
STRONG DOUBT THE
ADMINISTRATION'S PLAN WILL WORK.
>> THERE IS NO WAY IN HELL YOU
CAN FORM AN ARMY ON THE GROUND
TO GO INTO SYRIA, TO DESTROY
ISIL WITHOUT A SUBSTANTIAL
AMERICAN COMPONENT.
OUR STRATEGY WILL FAIL YET
AGAIN.
THIS PRESIDENT NEEDS TO RISE TO
THE OCCASION BEFORE WE ALL GET
KILLED BACK HERE AT HOME.
>> Sreenivasan: AN ARTICLE
PUBLISHED TODAY BY THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS SAYS THE
ISLAMIC STATE IS NOW EARNING $3
MILLION A DAY FROM OIL
SMUGGLING, HUMAN TRAFFICKING,
THEFT AND EXTORTION.
THE PIECE QUOTES A U.S.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL AS SAYING
THE GROUP'S RESOURCES EXCEED
THOSE OF ANY OTHER TERRORIST
GROUP IN HISTORY.
THE ISLAMIC STATE CONTROL 11 OIL
FIELDS IN IRAQ AND SYRIA AND
REPORTEDLY SELLS ITS OIL AT
DEEPLY DISCOUNTED PRICES.
IN NORTH KOREA TODAY, A 24-YEAR-
OLD AMERICAN WAS SENTENCED TO
SIX YEARS OF HARD LABOR.
MATTHEW MILLER OF BAKERSFIELD
CALIFORNIA WAS CONVICTED OF
ENTERING THAT COUNTRY ILLEGALLY
TO COMMIT ESPIONAGE.
MILLER IS ONE OF THREE AMERICANS
BEING HELD THERE.
MISSIONARY KENNETH BAE IS
SERVING 15 YEARS FOR ALLEGEDLY
TRYING TO BUILD AN UNDERGROUND
RELIGIOUS NETWORK.
AND JEFFREY FOWLE IS EXPECTED TO
BE PUT ON TRIAL SOON.
HE WAS ARRESTED LAST MAY FOR
ALLEGEDLY LEAVING A BIBLE IN THE
BATHROOM AT A CLUB.
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST
AFRICA HAS CLAIMED THE LIFE OF
ANOTHER DOCTOR, HOURS AFTER THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION SAID
IT COULD NOT MEDICALLY EVACUATE
HER FROM SIERRA LEONE TO
GERMANY.
MORE THAN 300 HEALTH WORKERS
HAVE BECOME INFECTED WITH EBOLA
IN GUINEA, LIBERIA AND SIERRA
LEONE AND NEARLY HALF OF THEM
HAVE DIED.
THERE WAS A SHORTAGE OF DOCTORS
IN THOSE COUNTRIES EVEN BEFORE
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK BEGAN.
SO FAR, ONLY FOREIGN HEALTH AND
AID WORKERS HAVE BEEN MEDICALLY
EVACUATED FROM THE AFFECTED
NATIONS.
AN UNUSUAL CEREMONY AT THE
VATICAN TODAY.
POPE FRANCIS MARRIED 20 COUPLES,
INCLUDING AT LEAST ONE COUPLE
WHO HAVE BEEN LIVING TOGETHER
AND HAVE HAD CHILDREN.
THE EVENT IS BEING INTERPRETED
AS THE LATEST SIGN OF THE POPE'S
WILLINGNESS TO MAKE THE CHURCH
MORE INCLUSIVE.
THE POPE OFFERED A TIP TO ALL
THE NEWLYWEDS:
>> (translated): A SMALL PIECE
OF ADVICE: IT IS NORMAL THAT
NEWLYWEDS ARGUE, IT HAPPENS AND
IT'S NORMAL.
BUT I ADVISE YOU NEVER TO END
THE DAY WITHOUT MAKING PEACE,
NEVER.
>> Sreenivasan: IN INDIANOLA
IOWA TODAY, AN IMPORTANT
POLITICAL GATHERING: THE HARKIN
STEAK FRY.
AN OUTDOOR FUNDRAISING EVENT
ATTENDED BY SEVERAL THOUSAND
PEOPLE THAT HAS ACTED AS A
SPRINGBOARD FOR WOULD-BE
DEMOCRAT PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
INCLUDING BARACK OBAMA.
THE HEADLINERS TODAY WERE BILL
AND HILLARY CLINTON.
A POLL PUBLISHED FRIDAY AMONG
REGISTERED DEMOCRATS IN IOWA
GAVE HILLARY CLINTON 53% MORE
THAN TRIPLE ANY OTHER POSSIBLE
DEMOCRAT CONTENDERS.
AND FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA,
WORD OF AN UNUSUAL PLAN TO TRY
TO STOP PANHANDLING AND FIGHT
HOMELESSNESS.
THE CITY OF PASADENA WILL BE
USING 14 PARKING METERS TO
COLLECT CHANGE THAT WILL BE
DONATED TO GROUPS SERVING THE
HOMELESS.
IT'S ADVERTISED AS, "THE REAL
CHANGE MOVEMENT."
DENVER AND ORLANDO HAVE TRIED
SIMILAR PLANS WITH MIXED
RESULTS.
ACCORDING TO PRESS REPORTS,
DENVER HAS RAISED MORE THAN
$30,000 A YEAR ANNUALLY.
BUT ORLANDO REPORTEDLY COLLECTED
LITTLE MORE THAN $2,000 IN THREE
YEARS, BARELY MORE THAN WHAT IT
COST TO INSTALL THE METERS.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ABOUT
THE TACTIC OF BEHEADINGS ADOPTED
BY ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS, WE
ARE JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON
D.C. BY TOM SANDERSON.
HE IS CO-DIRECTOR OF THE
TRANSNATIONAL THREATS PROJECT AT
THE CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
SO WHAT PURPOSES DO THESE
VIDEOS SERVE?
>> WELL MANY-- WELL, MANY
PURPOSE, ONE, IT CERTAINLY
IS DESIGNED TO TERRORIZE THE
WEST, THE POPULATIONS, THE
PUBLIC IS REPRESENTING THAT
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL
POTENTIALLY IN THE HOPE THAT
ISIS DETER FURTHER ACTION.
THESE GROUPS KNOW,
ESPECIALLY ISIS KNOW THAT
SOME NATIONS PAY RANSOMS TO
RELEASE THEIR INDIVIDUAL,
AND THEY KNOW THAT IF THEY
PRESENT THIS AS THE OPTION
FOR NOT PAYING A RANSOM THAT
PERHAPS THEY COULD SPLIT THE
COALITION, THE PARTNERS THAT
HAVE SIGNED UP TO CONFRONT
ISIS, SO THAT'S ONE REASON,
TERRORIZING AND POTENTIALLY
SPLITTING.
THE OTHER CERTAINLY ABOUT
EMPOWERMENT, BOTH FOR
THEMSELVES AND FOR THOSE
YOUNG MEN THAT THEY TRY TO
RECRUIT.
AT THIS POINT IN THE CURRENT
STATE OF THE BATTLE THE U.S.
CAN HIT ISIS WITH IMPUNITY,
WILL HAVE DRONES IN THE
BATTLE.
WE HAVE AIRCRAFT NOW.
WE DON'T HAVE BOOTS ON THE
GROUND.
SO ISIS CAN'T HIT BACK AND
BLEED US.
BUT THEY CAN THROUGH OUR
CIVILIANS, THROUGH THE
REPORTERS, NGO WORKERS,
HUMANITARIAN WORKERS
ORGANIZE WHATEVER.
SO THIS TO THEM LEVELS THE
PLAYING FIELD TO SOME
DEGREE.
IT'S ALSO ABOUT REVENGE,
CLEARLY.
THE ORANGE GITMO JUMP SUIT
IS ABOUT HITTING BACK AND
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
STRIKE THE U.S.
SO THIS GIVES THEM THAT
OPPORTUNITY TO SATISFY THAT
NEED OF ACTUALLY INFLICTING
PAIN ON THE WEST.
THAT BRINGS ME TO THE THIRD
PART, THAT'S THE RECRUITMENT
ELEMENT, THE PROPAGANDA TOOL
THIS IS VERY SATISFYING TO
YOUNG MEN WHO COME FROM
COUNTRIES WHERE THEY'RE
MARGINALIZE-- MARGINALIZED,
WHERE THEY ARE SUBJECT TO
HARSH TREATMENT, WHERE THEY
FEEL DENUDED AND IMPOTENT.
AND THIS GIVES THEM A SENSE
OF POWER THAT THEY ARE
PROBABLY NEVER HAD BEFORE.
>> ON THE FIRST POINT WHEN
YOU SAID THAT THIS IS MAYBE
A WAY TO FRACTURE DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THE COALITION T
SEEMS TO BE GALVANIZING THE
WEST AGAINST THEM.
>> YEAH.
RIGHT NOW AND THE PEOPLE
THAT THEY HIT ARE THE U.K.
AND THE U.S.
AND QUESTION HAVE BEEN VERY
RESOLUTE IN OUR ACT, IN OUR
DISPOSITION TOWARDS ISIS.
BUT I THINK THAT IN THE
FUTURE YOU COULD SEE MORE OF
THESE ATTACKS, MORE OF THESE
BEHEADINGS AGAINST CITIZENS
FROM COALITION COUNTRIES AS
AN EFFORT TO SPLIT THEM, TO
SPLIT THE PARTNERSHIP,
WHETHER THIS WORKS NOT I
DON'T KNOW BUT IT
CERTAINLY IS ONE OF THE FEW
TOOLS THAT ISIS WILL BE ABLE
TO USE AGAINST THAT
COALITION.
SO I WOULD EXPECT TO SEE
THIS AS AN EFFORT IN THE
FUTURE.
>> IS IT WORKING ON THE
RECRUITING FRONT?
>> I THINK SO.
I CERTAINLY THINK THAT AGAIN,
THESE YOUNG MEN, 10,000 OR
MORE, UPWARDS OF MAYBE
15,000 WHO HAVE COME.
>> SEE THIS AS ONE OF THE
FEW METHODS THAT ISIS AND
THEMSELVES BY EXTENSION CAN
TAKE AGAINST THE WEDNESDAY.
AND AGAIN IT'S NOT
COINCIDENTAL THAT THE ORANGE
JUMP SUIT IS BEING USED HERE
SO I DO THINK IT SERVES AS
AN EFFECTIVE PROPAGATION,
PROPAGANDA TOOL FOR THESE
YOUNG MEN WHO AGAIN ARE
COMING FROM PLACES WHERE
THEY ARE MARGINALIZE.
>> IS THERE A POINT OF
DIMINISHING RETURNS FOR THE
ISLAMIC STATE WITH THESE
VIDEOS?
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFICULT TO
SAY.
I THINK THERE ARE
DIMINISHING RETURNS FOR THE
BEHEADING VIDEOS.
IT COULD BE THAT SIMPLY THE
FIRST ONE TO COME OUT WITH
JAMES FOLEY REALLY SHOCKED
AMERICANS AND SHOCKED THE
WEST.
BUT AS THEY CONTINUE, IF
THEY DO CONTINUE, AND I HOPE
THEY DON'T, IT COULD BE A
DIMINISHING EFFECT FOR ISIS
AS THEY CONDUCT THESE.
I THINK THE BACKS OF
AMERICANS WILL CONTINUE TO
STIFFEN, RESOLVE IS STRONG
RIGHT NOW.
SO I THINK THAT ISIS COULD
FIND THAT THEY DON'T HAVE
THE SAME KIND OF EFFECT.
BUT IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN
WHAT SORT OF IMPACT IT HAS
ON THE U.S. PUBLIC, THE
PUBLIC OF OUR PARTNERS, BOTH
LOCALLY IN THE REGION AS
WELL AS IN EUROPE.
AND AMONG THOSE RECRUITS.
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
DETERMINE THE LONG-TERM
EFFECT.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE
MEDIA'S ROLE OR
RESPONSIBILITY IN HOW THESE
IMAGES ARE REPEATED OVER AND
OVER AGAIN.
>> YEAH.
WELL, I THINK WE'VE SEEN A
CLEAR CHANGE WHERE MEDIA IS
TRYING TO CONDUCT A BLACKOUT
OF THESE VIDEOS.
AND I THINK THAT'S VERY
GOOD.
WHICH POINTS IT TO THE FACT
THAT THERE IS A PROPAGANDA
VALUE HERE FOR THE VIDEOS.
SO I THINK IT'S BEEN GOOD
THAT TWITTER AND OTHER MEDIA
FORUMS INCLUDING VISUAL
MEDIA HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SHUT
DOWN AND REDUCE THE
INCIDENCES OF THE VIDEOS
BEING SHOWN.
SO THAT'S GOOD.
BUT I THINK THERE'S ALWAYS A
WAY AROUND THAT AND I THINK
ISIS IS GOING TO BE ABLE TO
FIND THOSE WAYS AND REACH
THE PEOPLE THAT THEY WANT TO
REACH.
>> ALL RIGHT, TOM SANDERSON
FROM THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> GREAT, YOU GOT IT
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND WORLD.
OUR FOCUS TONIGHT: GROWING ANTI-
SEMITISM IN EUROPE.
IN BERLIN TODAY, AT AN EVENT
MARKING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE OUTBREAK OF WORLD WAR II.
CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL SAID
HER NATION HAS A LOT OF WORK TO
DO TO FIGHT THE RISE IN ANTI-
SEMITISM THERE.
AND SHE SAID SHE IS VERY
CONCERNED THAT POLICE PROTECTION
IS NOW NEEDED OUTSIDE JEWISH
INSTITUTIONS THROUGHOUT GERMANY.
THE SITUATION IS MUCH THE SAME
IN FRANCE, WHERE THE RECENT WAR
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS LED TO
SOME PRO-PALESTINIAN
DEMONSTRATIONS THAT ENDED IN
HATEFUL ANTI-JEWISH CHANTS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL HAS OUR REPORT
FROM PARIS.
♪
>> Reporter: JEWISH TRADITION IS
STRONG HERE.
THIS IS ONE OF MANY SYNAGOGUES
IN FRANCE, JEWS HAVE BEEN IN
THIS COUNTRY FOR CENTURIES,
NUMBERING 500,000.
TODAY, FRANCE HAS THE LARGEST
JEWISH POPULATION IN EUROPE, BUT
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THEIR
LIVING MEMORY THE JEWS OF THIS
SYNAGOGUE IN CENTRAL PARIS ARE
TALKING ABOUT LEAVING FRANCE
FEARING WHAT THEY CALL A NEW
ANTI-SEMITISM.
LOHAN LAYANE SAYS HE IS AFRAID
THAT ANTI-ISRAELI SENTIMENT HAS
MORPHED INTO A WIDER, MORE
DANGEROUS ANTI-SEMITISM.
>> IF YOU HAVE A DAVID STAR OVER
HERE, YOU CAN HAVE A PROBLEM OR
IF YOU WEAR A KIPPA SOME PEOPLE
COME TO YOU AND SAY YOU ARE BAD
JEWS WE ARE GOING TO KILL YOU
AND PUT YOU IN THE SEA, IT IS
FRIGHTENING.
>> Reporter: IN JULY, DURING
ISRAEL'S WAR WITH HAMAS, THE
SYNAGOGUE WAS TARGETED BY
DEMONSTRATORS WHO REPORTEDLY
CHANTED DEATH TO JEWS AS THEY
ATTACKED.
THESE ARE IMAGES FROM INSIDE THE
SYNAGOGUE.
A SHOW OF FORCE FROM POLICE
ENDED THE PROTEST.
SO THIS IS THE RESULT-- CONSTANT
POLICE PROTECTION.
JEWS HAVE BEEN COMING HERE TO
WORSHIP AT THIS SYNAGOGUE FOR 50
YEARS, BUT NOW THEY SAY THEY
WON'T COME UNLESS THE POLICE ARE
OUTSIDE.
AND ITS NOT JUST IN PARIS.
IN SARCELLES, A SMALL COMMUNITY
WITH A LARGE JEWISH POPULATION
NORTH OF PARIS, A PEACEFUL PRO-
PALESTINIAN MARCH DEGENERATED
INTO VIOLENCE AGAINST ANYTHING
JEWISH.
ATTACKS LIKE THESE HAVE HAD A
PROFOUND IMPACT ON THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY.
AT THE JEWISH AGENCY IN PARIS
THERE HAS BEEN A SURGE IN
APPLICATIONS FOR ASSISTANCE TO
EMIGRATE TO ISRAEL.
THE AGENCY ESTIMATES 5,000 WILL
LEAVE THIS YEAR, THE HIGHEST
EVER.
THE MELLOUL FAMILY OF PARIS IS
JUST DAYS AWAY FROM MOVING TO
ISRAEL.
GABRIEL MELLOUL IS A
DERMATOLOGIST AND IS GIVING UP A
SUCCESSFUL PRACTICE.
>> (translated): I'VE GROWN UP
WITH PEOPLE FROM ALL DIFFERENT
BACKGROUNDS, SAYS YOEL MELLOUL.
ITS ALWAYS BEEN ALRIGHT, BUT I
FEEL ITS CHANGING.
>> Reporter: 16 YEAR OLD JUDITH
IS LEAVING MANY FRIENDS BEHIND
BUT SHE SAYS, "IT'S TIME."
IN ISRAEL WE ARE FREE TO LIVE
OUR RELIGION AND TO SHOW THAT WE
ARE JEWISH, SHE SAYS.
IN FRANCE, WE HAVE TO HIDE THE
FACT WE ARE JEWISH.
>> Reporter: THE SITUATION HAS
BEEN DETERIORATING OVER THE PAST
FEW YEARS.
IN 2012, THREE CHILDREN AND AN
ADULT WERE SHOT AND KILLED AT
THE JEWISH SCHOOL IN TOULOUSE.
AND IN MAY, KILLINGS AT THE
JEWISH MUSEUM IN BRUSSELS, BY A
SHOOTER LATER IDENTIFIED AS
FRENCH, RAISED THE ANXIETY LEVEL
HIGHER.
ANTI-SEMITISM ISN'T NEW IN
FRANCE.
IN 1894, ALFRED DREYFUS, A
FRENCH JEW IN THE FRENCH ARMY,
WAS FALSELY ACCUSED OF PASSING
MILITARY SECRETS TO THE GERMANS
HE WAS JAILED FOUR YEARS AND WAS
EVENTUALLY CLEARED BUT NOT
BEFORE ANTI-SEMITISM EXPLODED.
DURING WORLD WAR II THE VICHY
FRENCH GOVERNMENT COLLABORATED
WITH THE NAZIS DEPORTING OVER 75
THOUSAND FRENCH JEWS TO
CONCENTRATION CAMPS.
>> TO LISTEN TODAY IN FRANCE
PEOPLE CRYING DEATH TO THE JEWS
FOR A CHILD OF WARSAW GHETTO
THIS WAS A SHOCK.
>> Reporter: MAREK HALTER IS A
RESPECTED JEWISH AUTHOR AND
PEACE ACTIVIST, IN SPITE OF HIS
SHOCK HE IS URGING JEWS WHO
REMEMBER THE 1930'S AND 1940'S
NOT TO LEAVE.
>> YOU ARE AFRAID, I UNDERSTAND,
BUT ITS NOT THE SAME AT THAT
TIME THE GOVERNMENTS WERE ANTI-
SEMITIC.
TODAY, YOU ONLY HAVE SMALL
MINORITIES THAT ARE ANTI-
SEMITIC.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE RISE OF
THE FAR-RIGHT IN FRANCE THERE IS
AGREEMENT THAT THE NEW ANTI-
SEMITISM PEOPLE TALK ABOUT IS
LARGELY DRIVEN BY RADICAL ISLAM.
THOSE KILLINGS IN TOULOUSE AND
THAT BRUSSELS ATTACK BOTH
INVOLVED MUSLIM EXTREMISTS.
YOSSI GAL IS THE ISRAELI
AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE.
>> IT IS THOSE EXTREMISTS THAT
GUISE THIS NEW ANTI-SEMITISM
THIS ANTI-ISRAEL.
ANTI-ISRAEL IS THE NEW ANTI-
SEMITISM HERE.
>> Reporter: ANTI-ISRAELI-PRO-
PALESTINIAN FEELINGS ARE STRONG
AMONG FRENCH MUSLIMS.
THE MAJORITY COME FROM NORTH
AFRICAN COUNTRIES, LIKE ALGERIA
AND MOROCCO.
MUSLIMS ACCOUNT FOR AS MUCH AS
10% OF THE FRENCH POPULATION.
THOSE DEMONSTRATIONS WERE TO
SHOW SUPPORT FOR OUR PALESTINIAN
BROTHERS HE SAYS, BECAUSE OF THE
BOMBS AND BECAUSE THEY ARE BEING
KILLED.
BUT ACCORDING TO PUBLISH REPORTS
IT IS ESTIMATED THAT ONLY A
SMALL PERCENTAGE OF FRANCES
ESTIMATED 6.5 MILLION MUSLIMS
HARBOUR EXTREMIST VIEWS.
AND THE PEOPLE WE SPOKE TO IN
THIS PREDOMINANTLY MUSLIM AREA
OF PARIS SAID THERE IS A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BEING
CRITICAL OF ISRAEL'S ACTION AND
BEING ANTI-SEMITIC.
>> I HAVE NOTHING AGAINST THE
JEWISH COMMUNITY HE SAYS BECAUSE
EVERYONE HAS THEIR RELIGION BUT
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN GAZA IS
APPALLING.
>> Reporter: EASY TO SEE THEN
HOW THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
CONFLICT STOKED TENSIONS OVER
THE SUMMER.
THAT PARIS SUBURB OF SARCELLES
IS STILL TRYING TO COME TO TERMS
WITH WHAT HAPPENED HERE.
SARCELLES HAS ALWAYS BEEN
DEFINED BY PEACEFUL CO-EXISTENCE
BETWEEN JEWS AND MUSLIMS.
SO WHAT HAPPENED HERE SHOCKED
BOTH COMMUNITIES.
SARCELLES MAYOR, FRANCOIS
PUPPONI, HAS BEEN VERY OUTSPOKEN
AGAINST THE VIOLENCE.
>> (translated): IT'S A
CATASTROPHE FOR THIS COUNTRY HE
SAYS, IF JEWS LEAVE IT'S A SIGN
OF THE REPUBLICS FAILURE.
WE HAVE TO FIGHT THIS.
>> Reporter: IN HIS ROLE AS
PEACEMAKER MAREK HALTER
DELIVERED A LETTER TO THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF SARCELLES SYNAGOGUE
FROM THE MUSLIM ASSOCIATION HERE
OFFERING SOLIDARITY AND SUPPORT
CONDEMNING THE VIOLENCE.
>> HE'S SAYING ITS VERY GOOD,
BUT HOW MANY ARE THERE?
THE GOOD PEOPLE?
SO HE'S WAITING FOR THE BIG
DEMONSTRATION OF THE THOUSANDS
AND THOUSANDS OF MUSLIMS IN THE
STREET TO SHOW THEY ARE AGAINST
THE EXTREMISTS.
>> Reporter: IN THE FACE OF ALL
OF THIS FRANCE HAS TAKEN STEPS
TO QUELL ANTI-SEMITISM.
THERE ARE TOUGH LAWS FORBIDDING
ANY KIND OF COMMUNICATION THAT
MIGHT INCITE HATRED OR
DISCRIMINATION.
>> THE LAW ON FREEDOM OF SPEECH
IS VERY CLEAR AND VERY STRICT SO
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS YOU
CANNOT SAY
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT
WANTS TO REASSURE THE JEWS OF
FRANCE THAT THEY ARE SAFE HERE.
THAT THERE IS SOME HOPE.
>> SO YOU ARE PREPARED TO WAIT
IT OUT-- TO STAY?
>> I'LL SEE FOR NOW I THINK WAIT
AND SEE, WAIT AND SEE BECAUSE
ITS NOT EASY TO LEAVE ITS VERY
BRAVE TO LEAVE.
>> Reporter: BUT FOUR DAYS AFTER
WE MET WITH THE MELLOUL FAMILY
THEY WENT AHEAD WITH THEIR PLAN
TO LEAVE FRANCE FOR GOOD.
>> I AM VERY HAPPY TO LEAVE.
NO, I'M NOT SAD.
BUT THERE IS SOMETHING IN MY
HEART.
YES, IT'S DIFFICULT.
>> Sreenivasan: A FOOTNOTE:
IN BELGIUM TODAY, THE PRIME
MINISTER AND OTHERS ATTENDED A
CEREMONY AS THE JEWISH MUSEUM
REOPENED FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE
FATAL SHOOTINGS THERE.
KEEP UP WITH THE DAY'S NEWS IN
REAL TIME. FOLLOW US AT NEWSHOUR
ON TWITTER AND LIKE US ON
FACEBOOK AT
facebook.com/newshour.
WOMEN HOLD FEW POSITIONS OF
AUTHORITY IN NEWSROOMS ACROSS
THE UNITED STATES.
THIS ACCORDING TO A NIEMAN
REPORT PUBLISHED ON THURSDAY BY
THE NIEMAN FOUNDATION FOR
JOURNALISM AT HARVARD.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM PORTLAND OREGON,
BY ANNA GRIFFIN.
SHE IS A REPORTER AND EDITOR AT
THE OREGONIAN AND IS THE AUTHOR
OF THE REPORT.
IS SO HOW SIGNIFICANT ARE
THE DISPARITIES BETWEEN MEN
AND WOMEN WHEN IT COMES TO
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN
NEWSROOMS?
>> THEY ARE REALLY, REALLY
STARK.
WOMEN IN THE UNITED STATES
MAKE UP SOMETHING LIKE 35%
OF ALL NEWSPAPER SUPERVISORS.
THEY RUN THREE OF THE TOP 25
CIRCULATION NEWSPAPERS.
AND THE NUMBERS TRANSLATE
INTERNATIONALLY TOO.
WOMEN RUN ONE OF THE TOP 25
CIRCULATIONS INTERNATIONALLY
OF NEWSPAPERS, SO IT IS AN
INDUSTRYWIDE PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ISN'T A
PIPELINE ISSUE, THERE ARE AS
MANY WOMEN COMING OUT OF
JOURNALISM OR COMMUNICATION
PROGRAMS IN COLLEGES SO,
WHAT'S HAPPENED.
WHAT'S BEHIND THIS?
>> IT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
THAT'S PART OF WHAT WE TRY
TO GET INTO.
AND I THINK ANSWERING IT IS
REALLY COMPLICATED BECAUSE
AS YOU MENTIONED WITH WHAT
WE SEE IS COMING OUT OF
JOURNALISM SCHOOLS WOMEN
MAKE UP HALF THE POPULATION
OF YOUNG JOURNALISTS.
AND OVER THE NEXT 20 YEARS
OR SO EVERY TIME YOU TAKE A
FIVE YEAR SNAPSHOT THE
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN HAS
DROPPED.
AND TO GET INTO THOSE
LEADERSHIP ROLES
PARTICULARLY OLD SCHOOL
MAINSTREAM NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS YOU HAVE TO
STICK AROUND.
EXPERIENCE PLAYS A LARGE
PART IN WHO GETS PROMOTED,
ESPECIALLY WHO GETS PICKED
FOR TOP JOBS.
WOMEN ARE OPTING OUT.
THEY'RE OPTING OUT EARLIER
AND EARLIER.
IN SOME CASES IT'S THE
ANSWERS WOULD YOU EXPECT,
ITS ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO
HAVE A FAMILY HAS TO MAKE A
REALLY HARD CHOICE BECAUSE
JOURNALISM IS A HARD JOB.
IT'S A LOW-PAYING JOB.
IT'S A JOB THAT REQUIRES A
LOT OF FLEXIBILITY IN YOUR
SCHEDULE.
BUT IT'S NOT JUST THAT.
EVEN IN COUNTRIES THAT HAVE
REALLY FAMILY-FRIENDLY
POLICIES, THAT LET WOMEN AND
MEN GO SPEND A LOT OF TIME
WITH THEIR FAMILIES AND THEN
GUARANTEE THEM THEIR JOBS BY
LAW WHEN THEY COME BACK, THE
PERCENTAGES ARE REALLY
SIMILAR.
SO IT'S NOT-- IT'S NOT JUST
WHAT YOU THINK IT IS.
IT IS SOMETHING SYSTEMIC
THAT WE'RE REALLY AS AN
INDUSTRY STRUGGLING TO PUT
OUR FINGERS AROUND.
>> WHAT ARE SOME OF THE
CONSEQUENCES EDITORIALLY, IS
THE NEWS THAT WE CONSUME
DIFFERENT WHEN WOMEN ARE IN
POSITIONS OF LEADERSHIP?
>> THE ACADEMIC STUDIES ARE
REALLY MIXED ON WHETHER
THERE IS A TANGIBLE TODAY'S
NEWSPAPER LOOKS DIFFERENT.
BUT WHAT WE KNOW AN I THINK
YOU CAN DRAW SOME
CONCLUSIONS FROM THIS IS
THAT ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE
RUN BY WOMEN TEND TO QUOTE
MORE WOMEN, TEND TO REVOW
MORE BOOKS BY WOMEN.
TEND TO HAVE WOMEN COVERING
HARDER NEWS BEATS.
AND SO YEAH, EVERY EDITOR
MALE AND FEMALE HAS THEIR
OWN PERSONAL STYLE, THEIR
OWN PREFERENCE IN THE KINDS
OF STORIES THAT THEY LIKE
THEIR PEOPLE TO CORPORATE
YOU BY THINK THE BROAD
ANSWER TO THAT IS WOMEN AND
MEN DO THINK DIFFERENTLY AND
DIFFERENT WOMEN AND MEN
THINK DIFFERENTLY.
AND PARTICULARLY IN
MAINSTREAM MEDIA, OUR JOB IS
TO REFLECT THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY THAT WE COVER, ANY
GIVEN ORGANIZATION, YOU NEED
AS BROAD A RANGE OF VOICES
AS POSSIBLE.
AND THAT'S JUST NOT
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW IN A LOT
OF PLACES AND A LOT OF
PLACES IT'S EXACTLY WHO
WOULD YOU EXPECT, YOU KNOW,
THE MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MAN
MAKING THE CHOICES AND ALL
OF US HAVE BLIND SPOTS,
IMPLICIT BIASES AND THAT
PRESENTS A COMMON.
>> Sreenivasan: ANNA GRIFFEN,
THANKS SOME OF.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS THE LAST
WEEKEND OF CAMPAIGNING BEFORE
NEXT THURSDAY'S HISTORIC VOTE ON
INDEPENDENCE FOR SCOTLAND.
POLLS CONTINUE TO SHOW THOSE WHO
BELIEVE SCOTLAND SHOULD REMAIN
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM WITH A
SLIGHT LEAD.
BUT SOME HAVE YET TO MAKE UP
THEIR MINDS.
ITN'S MARTIN GEISSLER REPORTS.
>> AS THIS CAMPAIGN ENTERS
ITS FINAL DAYS, EXCITEMENT
MAY JUST BE TURNING TO
APPREHENSION.
WITH THE POLLS SO CLOSE AND
SO MUCH AT STAKE, PERHAPS
THAT'S NOT SURPRISING.
CAMPAIGNERS FROM BOTH SIDES
HAVE BEEN OUT ALL WEEKEND.
BUT IT'S THE HALF MILLION OR
SO UNDECIDED VOTERS WHO WILL
DETERMINE BRITAIN'S FUTURE.
THE FIGHT IS ON TO WIN THEM
OVER.
>> WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS YOU
KNOW, IF YOU HAVE GOT ANY
DOUBTS ABOUT THIS THAN DON'T
DO IT.
YOU WOULDN'T DO IT ON ANY
PERSONAL DECISION YOU WOULD
MAKE.
AND THIS DECISION ISN'T JUST
FOR YOU, IT'S FOR YOUR
FAMILY, IT'S FOR YOUR
COUNTRY.
WHICH IS WHY PEOPLE BUILD
SAY NO THANKS ON THURSDAY.
>> THE YES CAMPAIGN HAVE
GENERATED REMARKABLE
MOMENTUM OVER RECENT WEEKS
CLOSING A GAP OF MORE THAN
20% AT THE POLLS.
BUT THEY INSIST THEY ARE
STILL THE UNDERDOGS.
>> THE BIG BATTALIONS
ORGANIZED BY DOWNING STREET,
THE SEVEN PLAGUES OF EGYPT
WILL DESCEND UPON SCOTLAND BUT
I THINK PEOPLE IN SCOTLAND HAVE
AN ATTITUDE THAT NO, THIS IS
A PROSPEROUS NATION.
THEY WANT IT TO BE A JUST
SOCIETY.
>> WE BRING OUR PRAYERS
TODAY ESPECIALLY ON THE VOTE
ON THURSDAY.
>> IN EDINBURG THERE WERE
PRAYERS TO MUTUAL RESPECT
AND RECONCILIATION.
MANY PEOPLE HERE ARE
BEGINNING TO FEAR THE
AFTERMATH OF THE REFERENDUM,
WHICHEVER WAY THE VOTE GOES.
AMID ALL THIS THERE ARE JUST
A FEW CERTAINTIES HERE.
SOME PARTS OF SCOTTISH LIFE
WILL NEVER CHANGE.
SOME WILL NEVER BE THE SAME
AGAIN.
WHATEVER HAPPENS, THIS WILL
BE THE BIGGEST WEEK IN THE
COUNTRY'S MODERN HISTORY.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME LATE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT,
SHORTLY AFTER THE STATE
DEPARTMENT ISSUED AN EMERGENCY
WARNING, AUTHORITIES IN UGANDA
ARRESTED 19 PEOPLE SAID TO
BE PLANNING AN IMMINENT
TERROR ATTACK.
THEY RECOVERED EXPLOSIVES
AND SUICIDE VESTS.
THE PRESIDENT OF LIBERIA
HAS FIRED TEN SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS FOR
REFUSING TO RETURN HOME FROM
OVERSEAS DURING THAT
COUNTRY'S EBOLA OUTBREAK.
AND VERMONT'S LARGEST CITY
BURLINGTON SAYS 100% OF ITS
ELECTRICITY NOW COMES FROM
RENEWABLE SOURCES.
ON TUESDAY JUDY WOODRUFF
REPORTS FROM IOWA ON THE
U.S. SENATE RACE THERE, THE
OUTCOME WILL HELP DECIDE WHO
CONTROLS THE SENATE SENATE,
JOIN US ON-LINE.
I'M HARRY SREENIVASAN, GOOD
NIGHT.